---
categories: null
comments: true
date: "2012-07-21T00:00:00Z"
title: A/B Testing Will Save Your Career
---

A company is the sum of hundreds of decisions made daily about product,
marketing, hiring, etc.  The magnitude of each decision varies, but it's rare to
find one decision (or several) that is single-handedly responsible for your
business' success or failure.  What matters is the average: on the whole, does
your business get more decisions right than wrong?

It's tempting to conclude that the best company is the one whose people have the
best natural intuition.  These people, blessed with divine judgment, will carve
market-winning products directly out of stone, while their competitors misfire
and fall behind.

In such a scenario, people with below-average intuition must be ruthlessly
culled in order to maintain above-market performance.  As an employee of this
company, each decision you make carries the weight of your future career on its
shoulders. (Better not fuck up!)

And yet, we all know intuition is fallible, mistakes inevitable.  So how do you
chart success for your career?

One option is to be lucky. (If you're lucky, you can stop reading here.)

Another option is to embrace A/B testing.  A/B testing directs the conversation
away from luck and intuition, and toward data-driven learning.  In an A/B
testing culture, your intuition is not your most prized asset.  Rather, your
value comes from your ability to brainstorm, define and execute experiments.
Instead of focusing on being right, and approaching decisions with dread, you
can focus on learning as much as possible by rapidly exploring different
solutions to the areas of your business and product you are working on.

One benefit of A/B testing is never making decisions that are quantitatively
poor.  But there's a long term benefit as well: A/B testing focuses you and your
team on the process of learning and building *organizational intuition*.  It
enables people to propose ideas that may sound silly or dumb without fear of
retribution.  And it enables people to gracefully accept defeat when their ideas
are rejected by data.  The company benefits greatly, as everyone iterates and
learns more quickly.

As an individual contributor, you are ultimately judged by your impact.  If you
use your own judgment to make decisions, you will be graded on your intuition.
But if you focus on learning via testing, you will be graded not on intuition,
but by the velocity of your experimentation.  Unless you're lucky, testing
affords you much more control of the outcome.
